>> I WOULD BETRAY MY DUTY TO
YOU, AND TO THE COUNTRY WE LOVE,
IF I EVER SENT YOU INTO HARM'S
WAY SIMPLY BECAUSE I SAW A
PROBLEM SOMEWHERE IN THE WORLD
THAT NEEDED TO BE FIXED.
>> Woodruff: AT WEST POINT
TODAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA RE-
AFFIRMED HIS VISION OF A
MUSCULAR-BUT-METHODICAL U.S. IN
WORLD AFFAIRS, WHILE DEFENDING
HIS HANDLING OF CRISES IN
UKRAINE, SYRIA AND OTHER
HOTSPOTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, AN
EXCLUSIVE LOOK AT RACE AND
GENDER DIVERSITY IN SILICON
VALLEY.
TONIGHT, GOOGLE SHEDS NEW LIGHT
ON WHO IT'S HIRING, AND WHICH
GROUPS ARE FALLING BEHIND.
>> Woodruff: PLUS:
>> COME, YOU MAY STAND UPON MY
BACK, AND FACE YOUR DISTANT
DESTINY.
>> Woodruff: THE PASSING OF A
LITERARY GIANT AND CULTURAL
PIONEER, WHOSE WRITINGS GAVE
VOICE TO THE PAIN OF RACISM AND
SEXISM.
WE EXPLORE THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MAYA ANGELOU.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE STORM OVER DELAYS
AT VETERANS AFFAIRS HOSPITALS
INTENSIFIED TODAY.
THE V.A. INSPECTOR GENERAL
REPORTED ON THE PHOENIX
FACILITY, WHERE OFFICIALS
ALLEGEDLY FALSIFIED WAIT TIMES.
INVESTIGATORS FOUND IT ACTUALLY
TOOK  AN AVERAGE OF 115 DAYS FOR
A FIRST APPOINTMENT.
THEY ALSO IDENTIFIED 1,700
VETERANS WHO WEREN'T ON THE
OFFICIAL WAITING LIST AT ALL.
THE REPORT CONCLUDED SIMILAR
PROBLEMS ARE SYSTEMIC THROUGHOUT
V.A. HOSPITALS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED THE
FINDINGS EXTREMELY TROUBLING.
REPUBLICANS, INCLUDING ARIZONA
SENATOR JOHN MCCAIN, WENT
FURTHER.
>> THESE ALLEGATIONS ARE NOT
JUST ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS,
THESE ARE CRIMINAL PROBLEMS.
WE NEED THE FBI AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO BE
INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTIGATION.
>> Ifill: MCCAIN ALSO JOINED
THOSE CALLING FOR V.A. SECRETARY
ERIC SHINSEKI TO RESIGN
OR BE FIRED.
MEANWHILE, THE PENTAGON
ANNOUNCED LAST NIGHT THAT THE
MILITARY WILL REVIEW ITS OWN
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM, WHICH IS
SEPARATE FROM THE V.A.'S.
>> Woodruff: IN UKRAINE, A TENSE
CALM PREVAILED ACROSS THE
EASTERN CITY OF DONETSK.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS LAUNCHED AN
OFFENSIVE THERE ON MONDAY,
KILLING AT LEAST 50 PRO-RUSSIAN
REBELS.
THERE WAS NO NEW FIGHTING TODAY,
BUT ABOUT 1,000 COAL MINERS
RALLIED IN SUPPORT OF THE
SEPARATISTS.
THEY SHOUTED SLOGANS AND
CARRIED BANNERS DEMANDING THAT
UKRAINIAN FORCES WITHDRAW
FROM THE REGION.
>> Ifill: FACTIONAL FIGHTING IN
LIBYA INTENSIFIED TODAY AS
MILITARY JETS BOMBED ISLAMIST
MILITIA BASES.
THE ATTACK IN BENGHAZI WAS
CARRIED OUT BY FORCES LOYAL TO A
RENEGADE FORMER GENERAL WHO'S
VOWED TO CRUSH THE RADICALS.
OVERNIGHT, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
WARNED AMERICANS TO LEAVE LIBYA,
SAYING THE SITUATION REMAINS
"UNPREDICTABLE AND UNSTABLE."
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY AND EDWARD SNOWDEN,
THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
LEAKER, ENGAGED IN A LONG-
DISTANCE WAR OF WORDS TODAY.
IT STARTED WHEN SNOWDEN TOLD
N.B.C. NEWS THAT HE HAD BEEN
"TRAINED AS A SPY."
>> I'VE WORKED FOR THE CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, UNDERCOVER,
OVERSEAS.
I'VE WORKED FOR THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY, UNDERCOVER,
OVERSEAS.
SO WHEN THEY SAY I'M A LOW LEVEL
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, THAT I
DON'T KNOW WHAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT, I'D SAY IT'S SOMEWHAT
MISLEADING.
>> Woodruff: KERRY FIRED BACK
THIS MORNING.
HE TOLD C.B.S. THAT SNOWDEN
SHOULD "MAN UP AND RETURN FROM
RUSSIA TO THE UNITED STATES," TO
FACE TRIAL.
AND ON A.B.C., HE INSISTED AGAIN
THAT SNOWDEN'S LEAKS HAVE DONE
SERIOUS DAMAGE.
>> WE HAVE EVIDENCE THAT PEOPLE
ARE IN ADDITIONAL DANGER BECAUSE
OPERATIONAL SECURITY HAS BEEN
BREACHED, BECAUSE TERRORISTS
HAVE LEARNED FIRST-HAND ABOUT
METHODS AND MECHANISMS BY WHICH
THE UNITED STATES COLLECTS
INTELLIGENCE.
AND SO, OUR OPERATIONS HAVE BEEN
COMPROMISED.
IT'S PLAIN AND SIMPLE.
>> Woodruff: SNOWDEN IS FACING
FEDERAL CHARGES OF STEALING
GOVERNMENT PROPERTY AND GIVING
OUT CLASSIFIED INTELLIGENCE.
>> Ifill: THE OLDEST PERSON EVER
TO SERVE IN CONGRESS LOST HIS
BID LAST NIGHT FOR AN EIGHTEENTH
TERM IN OFFICE.
TEXAS REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN
RALPH HALL WAS OUSTED IN A
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY RUNOFF BY
FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY JOHN
RATCLIFFE.
HALL IS 91 YEARS OLD.
HE WAS FIRST ELECTED IN 1980.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET
TODAY, THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL
AVERAGE LOST 42 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 16,663.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 12 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,225.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED 2
POINTS, TO 1,909.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME
ON THE NEWSHOUR;
THE PRESIDENT'S VISION FOR THE
U.S. IN WORLD AFFAIRS;
AN EXCLUSIVE LOOK AT RACE AND
GENDER DIVERSITY AT GOOGLE;
WITH THE OUTCOME CERTAIN,
TURNOUT IS LOW IN EGYPT'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION;
HEALING THE WOUNDS FROM GENOCIDE
IN RWANDA;
PLUS, THE PASSING OF A POET,
RENAISSANCE WOMAN AND LITERARY
GREAT, MAYA ANGELOU.
>> Woodruff: IN A HIGHLY
ANTICIPATED SPEECH BEFORE
HUNDREDS OF FUTURE AMERICAN
MILITARY LEADERS, PRESIDENT
OBAMA PUSHED BACK AGAINST
CRITICS OF HIS ACTIONS ON THE
WORLD STAGE TODAY.
>> THE QUESTION WE FACE, THE
QUESTION YOU WILL FACE, IS NOT
WHETHER AMERICA WILL LEAD, BUT
HOW WE WILL LEAD.
>> Wooduff: IT WAS A
COMMENCEMENT SPEECH THAT DOUBLED
AS A DEFENSE OF THE PRESIDENT'S
FOREIGN POLICY, AND HIS VIEW OF
AMERICA'S RE IN THE WORLD.
HE ADDRESSED GRADUATES AT THE
U.S. MILITARY ACADEMY IN WEST
POINT, NEW YORK, AND TRIED TO
STAKE OUT A MIDDLE GROUND ON
INVOLVING THE U.S. ABROAD.
>> TODAY, ACCORDING TO SELF-
DESCRIBED REALISTS, CONFLICTS IN
SYRIA OR UKRAINE OR THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC ARE NOT OURS TO
SOLVE.
A DIFFERENT VIEW, FROM
INTERVENTIONISTS FROM THE LEFT
AND RIGHT, SAYS WE IGNORE THESE
CONFLICTS AT OUR OWN PERIL;
EACH SIDE CAN POINT TO HISTORY
TO SUPPORT ITS CLAIMS.
BUT I BELIEVE NEITHER VIEW FULLY
SPEAKS TO THE DEMANDS OF THIS
MOMENT.
>> Wooduff: THE SPEECH CAME AT A
MOMENT WHEN THE PRESIDENT IS
UNDER GROWING CRITICISM THAT
HE'S PROJECTED WEAKNESS,
ENCOURAGING  ADVERSARIES TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE.
PUSHING BACK AGAINST THOSE
CRITICS, HE  ARGUED THE NATION
MUST CONSIDER FUTURE STEPS
CAREFULLY, AFTER WHAT HE CALLED
A LONG SEASON OF WAR.
>> U.S. MILITARY ACTION CANNOT
BE THE ONLY, OR EVEN PRIMARY,
COMPONENT OF OUR LEADERSHIP IN
EVERY INSTANCE.
JUST BECAUSE WE HAVE THE BEST
HAMMER DOES NOT MEAN THAT EVERY
PROBLEM IS A NAIL.
>> Wooduff: INSTEAD, MR. OBAMA
CALLED AGAIN FOR INTERNATIONAL
ORGANIZATIONS TO PLAY A GREATER
ROLE IN ADDRESSING GLOBAL
TROUBLES.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF FOLKS, A
LOT OF SKEPTICS WHO OFTEN
DOWNPLAY THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
MULTILATERAL ACTION.
FOR THEM, WORKING THROUGH
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, OR
RESPECTING INTERNATIONAL LAW, IS
A SIGN OF WEAKNESS.
I THINK THEY'RE WRONG.
>> Wooduff: THE PRESIDENT CITED
UKRAINE'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
THIS PAST WEEKEND, AND THE
INTERIM NUCLEAR AGREEMENT WITH
IRAN AS SIGNS OF THE POWER OF
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.
HE SPOKE JUST A DAY AFTER
OUTLINING PLANS TO END U.S.
MILITARY ENGAGEMENT IN
AFGHANISTAN.
AND, HIS WEST POINT REMARKS MADE
CLEAR THE EXPERIENCE AS
COMMANDER IN CHIEF HAS LEFT ITS
MARK.
>> FOUR OF THE SERVICE-MEMBERS
WHO STOOD IN THE AUDIENCE WHEN I
ANNOUNCED THE SURGE OF OUR
FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN GAVE THEIR
LIVES IN THAT EFFORT.
A LOT MORE WERE WOUNDED.
I BELIEVE AMERICA'S SECURITY
DEMANDED THOSE DEPLOYMENTS.
BUT I AM HAUNTED BY THOSE
DEATHS.
I AM HAUNTED BY THOSE WOUNDS.
>> Wooduff: IT WAS 9/11 THAT
INITIALLY TRIGGERED U.S.
MILITARY ACTION IN AFGHANISTAN.
BUT THE PRESIDENT ARGUED A
CENTRALIZED AL-QAEDA HAS SINCE
GIVEN WAY TO AFFILIATES, SO THE
U.S. MUST CHANGE IT'S APPROACH.
>> FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE,
THE MOST DIRECT THREAT TO
AMERICA AT HOME AND ABROAD
REMAINS TERRORISM.
BUT A STRATEGY THAT INVOLVES
INVADING EVERY COUNTRY THAT
HARBORS TERRORIST NETWORKS IS
NAIVE AND UNSUSTAINABLE.
>> Wooduff: INSTEAD, HE CALLED
FOR A $5 BILLION EFFORT TO HELP
OTHER COUNTRIES FIGHT
TERRORISTS.
AS PART OF THAT EFFORT, THE
PRESIDENT SAID HE WOULD "WORK
WITH CONGRESS TO RAMP UP
SUPPORT" FOR THE SYRIAN
OPPOSITION, BUT GAVE NO
SPECIFICS.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE INSISTED,
THE U.S. WILL USE MILITARY FORCE
WHEN CORE INTERESTS DEMAND IT,
INCLUDING DRONE STRIKES.
BUT HE AGAIN PROMISED GREATER
TRANSPARENCY.
>> WHEN WE CANNOT EXPLAIN OUR
EFFORTS CLEARLY AND PUBLICLY, WE
FACE TERRORIST PROPAGANDA AND
INTERNATIONAL SUSPICION; WE
ERODE LEGITIMACY WITH OUR
PARTNERS AND OUR PEOPLE; AND WE
REDUCE ACCOUNTABILITY IN OUR OWN
GOVERNMENT.
>> Wooduff: THE SPEECH SETS THE
STAGE FOR THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP
TO EUROPE NEXT WEEK AND FOR
FURTHER DEBATE IN THIS YEAR OF
CONGRESSIONAL ELECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: TO DISSECT THE
PRESIDENT'S VISION OF AMERICA
ABROAD WE GET THREE VIEWS.
THOMAS PICKERING WAS UNDER
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR POLITICAL
AFFAIRS DURING THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
HE ALSO SERVED AS U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO A NUMBER OF
COUNTRIES INCLUDING RUSSIA AND
THE UNITED NATIONS DURING HIS
LONG DIPLOMATIC CAREER.
ELLIOTT ABRAMS WAS DEPUTY
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR DURING
THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
AND STEPHEN WALT IS A PROFESSOR
OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AT
HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S KENNEDY
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT.
HE'S WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ABOUT
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY.
WELL WELCOME THE THREE OF
YOU.
ELLIOTT ABRAMS, LET ME START
WITH YOU, WHAT WAS YOUR MAIN
REACTION WITH WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAD TO SAY,
ESPECIALLY HIS DESCRIPTION
OF HOW HE SEES THE U.S. ROLE
IN THE WORLD.
>> MY REACTION IS WHERE'S
THE BEEF.
THIS WAS BILLED AS A MAJOR
SPEECH BUT THERE WERE NO
REAL SIGNIFICANCE CHANGES IN
IT, NO NEW ANNOUNCEMENTS.
THE PRESIDENT HAD MORE STRAW
MEN IN THE SPEECH, I THINK
THAN THERE WERE CADDETTES IN
THE AUDIENCE.
HE POSITED THAT HE IS THE
GOLDEN MEANS BETWEEN THE
ISOLATIONISTS AND
INTERVENTIONISTS.
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT.
AND SETTINGING UP STRAW MEN
SAYING OTHER PEOPLE WANT TO
SEND TROOPS TO SIRRIA.
I DON'T KNOW ANYONE TO DO
THAT.
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT.
AND IT IS I THOUGHT
DISRESPECTFUL TO THE PEOPLE
IN CONGRESS AND IN THE PRESS
AND IN THE COUNTRY WHO ARE
ARGUING ABOUT FOREIGN POLICY
TO MAKE BELIEVE THAT THESE
ARE NOT SERIOUS ARGUMENTS.
>> Woodruff: THOMAS
PICKERING, STRAW MEN, MAKING
UP AN ENEMY?
>> WELL, I HAVEN'T TALKED TO
ELLIOTT BUT I THINK WHATEVER
HE IS LOOK AT STRAW MEN, I
THINK THAT IS A STRAWMAN
ARGUMENT, MYSELF.
I THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
SPEECH WAS A GOOD ONE.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT CAME
OUT WHERE HE SHOULD HAVE, ON
THE QUESTION OF WHEN WE USE
MILITARY FORCE UNILATERALLY
AND WHEN WE GO
MULTILATERALLY.
THERE IS NO QUESTION AT ALL
THAT THE PRESIDENT WILL WANT
TO DEFINE SOME OF THESE
QUESTIONS A LITTLE MORE
CONCISELY AND CLEARLY AS THE
PROCESS GOES AHEAD.
I THOUGHT HE PUT TOGETHER A
NEXUS OF ARGUMENTS THAT WAS
VERY PERSUASIVE ON THE
THINGS THAT HE WAS GOING TO
CONCENTRATE ON.
HE DIDN'T RE-- FROM U.S.
LEADERSHIP DESPITE THE
COMMENTS AROUND THE WORLD
THAT WE HAVE.
I THINK HE MADE IT VERY KLER
THAT HE WANTS TO BE, PUT IT
THIS WAY, ENGAGED IN SYRIA,
PERHAPS IN A NEW AND
SOMEWHAT DIFFERENT WAY.
WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE
HOW THAT'S GOING TO COME HE
IS FINISHING OUR KMOITMENT
IN AFGHANISTAN AS HE
ANNOUNCED THE DAY BEFORE AND
THAT CERTAINLY UNDERLAY THE
SPEECH IN TERMS OF THE MAJOR
ARGUMENTS THAT HE WANTED TO
MAKE.
AND FINALLY AND ELLIOTT
WOULD KNOW BECAUSE HE
HIMSELF WAS DEEPLY ENGAGED
IN THIS EFFORT, THE
DEMOCRACY IN HUMAN RIGHTS
ARE PART OF OUR FOREIGN
POLICY.
HE PUT IT IN A WAY THAT I
THINK MESHED IT WELL WITH
WHAT ELSE IS BEING DONE.
AND I THINK FINALLY HE SAID
NOT ALL PROBLEMS CAN BE
SOLVED BY MILITARY FORMS.
INDEED SOMEWHERE MADE WORSE
BY MILITARY FORCE.
AND DIPLOMACY AND
DEVELOPMENT HAVE AN
IMPORTANT ROLE.
I WOULD THINK THAT THERE ARE
DETAILS HERE THAT ONE COULD
QUIBBLE ABOUT BUT I THINK
OVERALL THE STRUCTURE OF THE
SPEEP, THE GENERAL MESSAGE
AND DIRECTION WAS GOOD AND I
THINK IT DID CHANGE A NUMBER
OF IDEAS, THOUGHTS AND
ATTITUDES THAT HAD BEEN
PREVALENT IN THIS COUNTRY
FOR SOME TIME THAT NEEDED TO
BE CORRECTED.
>> STEPHEN WALT, WHERE DO
YOU COME DOWN?
>> I THINK THE SPEECH BEGAN
IN A VERY POSITIVE WAY BY
REMINDING THE AUDIENCE THAT
THE UNITED STATES IS VERY
POWERFUL AND VERY SECURE.
AND THAT WE FACE NO DIRECT
THREAT OF ATTACK FROM ANY
NATION.
I THINK THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT.
I THINK HE WAS ALSO OF
COURSE CORRECT TO EMPHASIZE
THAT THE USE OF HILL TEAR
POWER HAS TO BE WEIGHED VERY
CAREFULLY, THAT THERE ARE
MANY GLOBAL PROBLEMS WHERE
AN IMMEDIATE COURSE OF
MILITARY FORCE IS NOT A GOOD
IDEA.
AND THAT WAS AN IMPORTANT
MESSAGE TO SEND TO THE
CADDETTES AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE BECAUSE THERE ARE
VOICES WHO ARE VERY QUICK TO
CALL FOR THE UNITED STATES
TO USE FORCE.
WE SHOULD ALSO REMEMBER THAT
HE TOOK OFFICE AFTER THE
UNITED STATES HAD BEEN
WAGING TWO UNSUCCESSFUL WARS
AT VERY GREAT COST.
WE SHOULD ALSO REMEMBER THAT
THIS IS NOT BEEN A PRESIDENT
WHO HAS BEEN SHY ABOUT
MILITARY, USING MILITARY
FORCE.
HE JUST WANTED TO USE IT IN
A MORE DISCREET AND
EFFECTIVE FASHION.
THAT WAS THE UPSIDE OF THE
SPEECH FOR ME.
THE DOWNSIDE WAS I THINK HE
PLACED TOO MUCH EMPHASIS ON
TERRORISM.
HE MENTIONED IT I THINK 17
TIMES IN THE SPEECH.
AND CONTINUED TO EXAGGERATE
THE DANGER THAT MOST
AMERICANS FACE.
AMERICANS ARE 35,000 TIMES
MORE LIKELY TO DIE OF HEART
DISEASE THAN FROM A
TERRORIST ATTACK.
AND TO CONTINUE TO KEEP OUR
FOCUS SO HEAVILY ON THAT
PARTICULAR PROBLEM, I THINK,
WAS A MISTAKE.
FINALLY --
>> GO AHEAD.
>> FINALLY WHAT WAS MISSING
IN THE SPEECH WAS A CLEAR
SENSE OF PRIORITIES.
AND THAT'S, I THINK, BEEN
THE MAJOR PROBLEM FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION ALL ALONG.
BECAUSE THEY HAVE CONTINUED
TO DEFINE AMERICAN INTERESTS
SO BROADLY, THEY END UP
GETTING BUFFETED ANY TIME,
ANY PROBLEM HAPPENS
ANYWHERE.
AND THEN GET ACCUSED OF NOT
SHOWING ENOUGH LEADERSHIP.
AND IN THAT SENSE HE DIDN'T
LAY OUT WHICH PARTS OF THE
WORLD HE CARES ABOUT MOST,
WHICH ISSUES ARE MOST
IMPORTANT, ANDS WHAT
SPECIFIC PROGRAMS HE'S GOING
TO FOLLOW TO TRY AND DEFEND
THOSE INTERESTS.
>> CLEARLY THERE'S MUCH MORE
HERE THAN WE HAVE TIME TO
DEAL WITH UNLESS YOU WANT TO
DEVOTE THE WHOLE PROGRAM
WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO DO.
>> BUT ELLIOTT ABRAMS, COME
BACK TO THIS POINT ABOUT
STRIKING THE BALANCE BETWEEN
INTERVENING AND NOT
INTERVENING.
WHY DO YOU THINK THE
PRESIDENT GOT THAT WRONG?
>> WELL, THE WORST MOMENT,
OF COURSE, WAS LAST SUMNER
SYRIA WHEN HIS OWN ADVISORY
SECRETARY CARY, FOR EXAMPLE,
WANTED TO INTERVENE AND THE
PRESIDENT AT THE LAST MINUTE
CHANGED HIS MIND.
IT'S NOT SO MUCH THAT THE
BALANCE IS WRONG IN A
PARTICULAR CASE.
IT'S THAT THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T EXPLAIN ANYTHING.
HE CHOSE THE POLICY ON SYRIA
YESTERDAY BY SAYING YEAH, WE
ARE APPARENTLY GOING TO
ARMED REBELS.
FOR TWO YEARS SECRETARY
PANETTA, CLINTON, CARY SAID
WE SHOULD DO THAT.
HE SAID NO.
NOW HE CHANGES HIS MIND BUT
HE DOESN'T TELL US WHAT
HAPPENED?
WHAT'S THE THEORY?
WHAT CHANGED?
I THINK HE DIDN'T --
>> YOU DIDN'T HEAR THAT.
>> HE JUST SAID WE'RE GOING
DO IT BUT HE DIDN'T SAY WHY
WERE THEY WRONG, AND NOW
THEY'RE RIGHT ALL OF A
SUDDEN.
>> YOU ARE SAYING THAT IS
IMPORTANT, AMBASSADOR
PICKERING, DID YOU HEAR AN
EXPLANATION?
>> I DIDN'T HEAR AN
EXPLANATION BUT THIS WASN'T
THE SPEECH FOR THE DEEP
EXPLANATION OF SYRIAN
POLICY.
IT WAS THE SPEECH TO PROVIDE
THE UNITED STATES AND THE
REST OF THE WORLD WITH A
CONCEPTUAL APPROACH AS TO
HOW AND IN WHAT WAY WE USED
MILITARY FORCE IN
COMBINATION WITH OTHER
FOREIGN POLICY TOOLS TO MEET
OUR OBJECTIVES.
I DO THINK THAT HE STATED
SOME OBJECTIVES.
THE U.S. IS ASSAILED WITH
WHAT I WOULD CALL A NUMBER
OF HIGH-ORDER SECOND RATE
PROBLEMS THAT WE'RE DEALING
WITH.
THAT DON'T AFFECT OUR LIFE,
OUR EXISTENCE OR OUR
PROSPERITY.
BUT THEY'RE OUT THERE AND
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING AT US.
>> EXAMPLES.
>> IN SYRIA, OF COURSE, IS
ONE OF THEM.
IRAN IS ANOTHER ONE.
ALTHOUGH I MIGHT SAY THAT
IRAN MIGHT BE OVER TIME
WHERE THEY DEVELOP A NUCLEAR
WEAPON WOULD BE EVEN HIGHER
ORDER.
BUT WHATEVER THAT MAY BE, I
THINK HE NOTED, AND I
DISAGREE WITH STEPHEN THAT
TERRORISM IS NOT A PROBLEM.
MALI, NIGERIA, CHAD, YOU CAN
LOOK AROUND, SOUTH SUDAN,
THESE ARE AREAS THAT HAVE
SOME IMPACT OF TERRORISM,
SOMALIA.
>> NOT DIRECTLY TO THE U.S.
>> NO, AND THEY'RE NOT
POLICIES THAT AFFECT OUR
EXISTENCE BUT THEY ARE
POLICIES THAT EFFECT FRIENDS,
ALLIES, TRADING
RELATIONSHIPS, A LOT OF
OTHER REASONS WHY WE HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED.
>> STEPHEN WALT FIRST AND
THEN COME BACK TO ELLIOTT I
THINK.
>> WELL, I AGREE WITH THE
AMBASSADOR, TERRORISM WAS IS
A PROBLEM.
I WOULDN'T LABOR IT A VITAL
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES
TODAY.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY WE'VE
SEEN THE ADMINISTRATION
SWING FROM ISSUE TO ISSUE.
WE WERE GOING TO PIVOT TO
ASIA.
THEN WE WERE GOING TO DEAL
WITH THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
CONFLICT.
NOW WE'RE GOING TO FOCUS
MORE ATTENTION ON
COUNTERTERRORIST COOPERATION
THROUGHOUT AFRICA.
WHAT HAS BEEN MISSING HERE
IS A SENSE OF WHICH ISSUES
ARE MOST IMPORTANT, WHICH
ISSUES DESERVE SUSTAINED
ASCENSION-- ATTENTION AND
THAT UNFORTUNATELY WASN'T
PROVIDED IN THIS PARTICULAR
SPEECH.
>> COMING BACK TO THE
PRIORITY POINT.
ELLIOTT ABRAMS YOU'RE
NODDING.
>> I JUST WANTED TO SAY I
THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WAS MISSING WHICH WAS ODD AT
A SPEECH AV WEST POINT.
THE PRESIDENT IS PLE SIDING
OVER THE DIMINUTION OVER
MILITARY POWER NAVY, ARMY
GETTING SMALLER.
>> THE END OF A FEW WARS.
>> MULTILATERALISM IS NOT
GOING TO WORK WITHOUT
AMERICAN POWER NASH, HAS
BEEN UNDERWRITING SINCE
1945.
HE TALKED ABOUT NATO.
NATO IS AN EXTENSION OF
AMERICAN POER W NOT A
SUBSTITUTE FOR AMERICAN
POWER AND I DON'T THINK HE
EVER REALLY CON FROKT-- CONFRO
CONFRONTED THAT IN HIS
SPEECH EITHER.
>> NATO IS PART OF THE
AMERICAN POWER ISSUE, THAT
WITHOUT THE U.S. BEING
INVOLVED, NATO ISN'T GOING
TO WORK.
AND WE SEE THAT VERY, VERY
CLEARLY.
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS
IMPORTANT.
I THINK THAT NATO IS VERY
MUCH INVOLVED IN AFGHANISTAN.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT FELT
THAT IT WAS TIME TO GET OUT
OF AFGHANISTAN.
I THINK THAT HE FEELS THAT
THERE ARE MANY MORE ISSUES
THAT CAN BE RESOLVED
DIPLOMATICALLY AND HE CITED
A COUPLE OF THOSES IN THE
SPEECH AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO
LOOK AT THAT.
SO I THINK THAT GENERAL
SHIFT IS NOT TOWARDS MORE
BUILD UP OF THE MILITARY BUT
A MUCH WIDER USE OF THE
MILITARY.
AND THAT'S THE MESSAGE WE
OUGHT TO TAKE FROM THE
SPEECH, NOT THE QUESTION OF
THIS PRIORITY OR THAT
PRIORITY.
ADMITTEDLY, THE PRESIDENT
CAME TO OFFICE WITH A WORLD
FULL OF PRIORITIES.
AND WE LEAVE THE OFFICE WITH
A WORLD EVEN MORE FULL OF
PRIORITIES DESPITE THE
DIFFICULTIES.
AND THE FACT THAT HE HAS TO
DEAL WITH A NUMBER OF THEM,
OR DOESN'T PICK FAVORITES
ONE TIME AFTER ANOTHER IS AN
INDICATION TO THE DEGREE TO
WHICH ITS WORLD IS
INTERCONNECTED AND THAT THE
GLOBAL PROSPER SIT IN SOME
WAYS OUR PROSPERITY.
>> WE LEAVE THIS INTERVIEW
WITH A NUMBER OF ISSUES WE
WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS
LONGER.
BUT WE ARE GOING TO LEAVE IT
THERE.
OF COURSE MY COLLEAGUE GWEN
IS GOING TO INTERVIEW
SECRETARY OF STATE CARY SO
WE'LL HEAR MORE ABOUT ALL
THIS TOMORROW.
NICHOLASING I'M SORRY,
ELLIOTT ABRAMS, STEPHEN WALT
AND THOMAS PICKERING, WE
THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
>> Ifill: AS THE U.S. TECHNOLOGY
SECTOR HAS BOOMED, WOMEN AND
MINORITIES HAVE LARGELY BEEN
LEFT BEHIND.
THAT IS ESPECIALLY TRUE FOR ONE
FAMILIAR TECH GIANT, GOOGLE.
WHICH, ALONG WITH OTHER SILICON
VALLEY COMPANIES, HAS
INCREASINGLY BEEN PRESSURED TO
DISCLOSE ITS RECORD ON
DIVERSITY.
IN A NEW INTERNAL REPORT
RELEASED TONIGHT EXCLUSIVELY TO
THE NEWSHOUR, THE COMPANY
REVEALS ALTHOUGH THIRTY PERCENT
OF GOOGLE'S TOTAL GLOBAL
WORKFORCE IS COMPRISED OF WOMEN,
ONLY 17% OF THE WORKERS WHO HOLD
TECH JOBS ARE FEMALE.
THE NUMBERS ARE EVEN MORE STARK
AMONG MINORITIES WORKING IN THE
UNITED STATES.
LATINOS MAKE UP JUST 2% OF THE
TECH WORKFORCE, AFRICAN-
AMERICANS 1%.
ASIANS ARE MORE FULLY
REPRESENTED, COMPRISING ABOUT
34%.
WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS FOR GOOGLE
AND THE WIDER INDUSTRY, WITH
LAZLO BOCK, WHO OVERSEES HIRING
AT GOOGLE AS THE SENIOR VICE
PRESIDENT OF PEOPLE OPERATIONS.
TELLIE WHITNEY, THE PRESIDENT OF
THE ANITA BORG INSTITUTE, WHICH
SEEKS TO PROMOTE MORE WOMEN IN
TECH.
AND VIVEK WADHWA, AN
ENTREPRENEUR, AUTHOR AND CRITIC
ON THESE ISSUES, WHO IS A FELLOW
ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT
STANFORD UNIVERSITY.
WELCOME TO YOU ALL.
WILL LAZLO BOCK, WHY
PUBLICIZE THIS NOW?
>> WELL, GWEN, TO BE HONEST,
WE KIND OF FELT WE HAD TOLL.
YOU KNOW, WE HADN'T SHARED
THE INFORMATION IN THE PAST
BECAUSE WE WERE WORRIED
ABOUT HOW IT WOULD LOOK AND
MAYBE PEOPLE WOULD LOOK AT
GOOGLE DICHBLY AND QUITE
FRANCLY WE DIDN'T THINK WE
WOULD LOOK GOOD AND WERE
WORRIED ABOUT LITIGATION.
AND WHAT WE AFTER MUCH
DISCUSSION KIND OF REALIZED
A NUMBER OF MONTHS AGO WAS
THAT THE RIGHT THING TO DO
WOULD BE TO SHARE THIS
INFORMATION.
BECAUSE WE HAVE AN ISSUE.
OUR INDUSTRY HAS AN ISSUE.
AND THE ONLY WAY TO HAVE AN
HONEST CONVERSATION ABOUT
THIS IS TO START BY ACTUALLY
SHARING THE FACTS.
>> Ifill: YOU HAVE SAID IN
THE PAST THIS WAS A
COMPETITIVE REASON WHY YOU
DIDN'T DISCLOSE IT.
THERE ARE OTHER COMPANIES
HAVE SAID THE SAME THING
TOO.
AS YOU BEGAN TO COMPILE
THESE NUMBER DOES GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF WHY THEY EXIST
LIKE THIS IN ITEM NUMBERS
WERE SO BAD?
>> YEAH, YOU KNOW THERE ARE
A NUMBER OF THINGS
EXPLAINING WHY THE NUMBERS
ARE ACTUALLY SO BAD.
>> PART OF IT IS IF YOU LOOK
AT WOMEN.
WOMEN AREN'T TAKING LOFT
COMPUTER SCIENCE COURSES AND
THE CULTURE OF THE TECH
INDUSTRY IN A LOT OF PLACES
ISN'T GREAT FOR WOMEN.
WE HAVE BEEN WORKING ON THIS
AT GOOGLE PARTICULARLY IN
THE LAST YEAR BRINGING MORE
UNCONSCIOUS BIAS TRAINING
FOR OUR EMPLOYEES FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND
HISPANICS IT IS EVEN WORSE
IT SAY SMALLER POPULATION,
EVEN FEWER PERCENTAGE OF
PEOPLE FROM THOSE
ETHNICITIES ACTUALLY EARN
DEGREES IN COMPUTER SCIENCE.
AND THE INDUSTRY IS THAT
MUCH LESS FRIENDLY.
>> TELLIE WHITNEY DOES THIS
SQUARE WITH YOUR
INVESTIGATIONS, YOUR
FINDINGS, YOUR MONITORING OF
THE SITUATION.
>> WELL, FIRST I WANT TO
APPLAUD GOOGLE FOR TALKING
ABOUT THE NUMBERS PUBLICLY.
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT.
ACCOUNTABILITY IS AT THE
HEART OF CHANGE.
AND OUR TOP COMPANY FOR
WOMEN IN COMPUTING ABBEY
AWARD ARE ENORMOUS BETWEEN
20 AND 23%.
WHICH IS STILL LOWER THAN
WOULD YOU WANT IT TO BE.
>> WELL, AND THERE IS EVEN
LOWER THAN THAT SO WHAT DO
YOU THINK THE REASONS ARE?
WELL, I THINK IT DEPENDS ON
WHERE YOU ARE GOING TO
RECRUIT, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
TOP RESEARCH UNIVERSITIES
YOU SEE ABOUT 12% WOMEN,
COMPUTER SCIENCE MORE
BROADLY IT'S BETWEEN 1818
AND 20% FOR BACHELOR AND
MASTERS, SO I THINK REACHING
OUT MORE BROADLY TO A LOT
MORE PEOPLE IS KEY TO MAKING
THE CHANGE.
>> VIVEK WADHWA, HOW DO THE
NUMBERS STRIKE YOU AND DO
YOU AGREE WITH THE NUMBERS
BEHIND THEM.
>> THE NUMBERS ARE LOW AND I
THINK GOOGLE CAN AND SHOULD
BE DOING A LOT MORE.
BUT AS TELLIE SAYS WE
APPLAUD THEM FOR DOING IT
BECAUSE THERE IS A SYSTEMIC
PROBLEM IN SILICON VALLEY.
THE FACT THAT ONE OF THE
LEADING COMPANIES IN SILICON
VALLEY IS NOW DISCLOSING
DATA T WILL PUT PRESSURE ON
OTHER COMPANIES TO DO THE
SAME.
AND THEN THERE WILL BE
PRESSURE ON THEM TO FIX THIS
PROBLEM WHICH IS AMAZING.
IT WILL BE MAJOR PROGRESS BY
GETTING THIS FAR.
SO I PLAUD GOOGLE FOR WHAT
THEY DID.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
THIS, VIVEK WADHWA, WE KNEW
THE NUMBERS WEREN'T GOOD
EVEN THOUGH WE DIDN'T HAVE
ACTUAL NUMBERS TO PUT TO IT.
WHY WASN'T ACTION TAKEN
BEFORE, IS IT JUST E
TERRIBLE PRESSURE.
WE KNOW JESSE JACKSON HAS
BEEN VISITING THESE
COMPANIES AND TELLING THEM
TO STRAIGHTEN UP AND FLY
RIGHT S THAT WHAT IT TAKES?
>> FRANKLY, SILICON VALLEY
IS A BOY'S CLUB.
IT'S LIKE A FRAT CLUB RUN
WILD IS WHAT I OFTEN SAY.
BECAUSE YOU HAVE YOUNG KIDS
HIRING OTHER YOUNG KIDS.
AND THEY DON'T HAVE THE
SENSITIVITY THAT BIG
COMPANIES DO.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
POINT OF DIVERSITY.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY
THEY HAVE TO BE INCLUSIVE
AND SO ON.
SO SILICON VALLEY HAS IT'S
TIME FOR SILICON VALLEY TO
GROW UP AND START BEHAVING
RESPONSIBLEABLY.
GOOG SELL A WONDERFUL CAN.
I DON'T WANT TO CRITICIZE
THEM HERE BECAUSE THEY ARE
DOING SUCH GOOD THINGS
HOWEVER, WITH MINORITIES AND
WOMEN BEING LEFT OUT --
>> AS YOU LOOK AT THESE
NUMBERS IS THE PROBLEM IN
THE PIPELINE, YOU TALK ABOUT
THE NUMBER OF WOMEN AND
MINORITIES GETTING THESE
TECHNICAL DEGREES, OR IS THE
PROBLEM IN THE WORKPLACE, A
HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT FOR
WOMEN AND FOR PEOPLE OF
COLOR.
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE A
COUPLE ASPECTS.
ONE IS ABSOLUTELY IN THE
WORKPLACE.
MOST PEOPLE ARE NOT OVERTLY
SEXIST OR RACIST OR HOME
PHOBIC BUT WE'RE HUMAN
BEINGS.
AND AS A RESULT, WE LIKE
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIKE US, WHO
WATCH THE SAME SHOWS, WHO
LIKE THE SAME FOOD, SAME
BACKGROUND SO WE BRING THIS
UNCONSCIOUS BIAS TO
EVERYTHING WE DO.
AND WHAT WE SEE IN EVERY
WORKPLACE AND WHAT WE SEE IN
GOOGLE IS THE RISING THAT
THERE IS AN IMPACT SO PART
OF IT IS IN THE WORKPLACE.
AND AS AN EMPLOYER WE FEEL
WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
ACTUALLY HELP PEOPLE COME TO
GRIPS WITH WHAT UNCONSCIOUS
BIAS THEY HAVE.
MORE BROADLY THOUGH YOU HAVE
AN EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
PROBLEM.
THERE IS AN ABSOLUTE
PIPELINE PROBLEM.
I REMEMBER MY TEEN CAME TO
ME ONE DAY AND WAS ECSTATIC
BECAUSE WE HIRED 50% OF THE
BLACK Ph.Ds IN COMPUTER
SCIENCE ONE YEAR.
>> WHICH WAS WHAT, TWO OF
THEM.
>> IT WAS ONE.
>> ANCE AND THE OTHER PERSON
WENT TO WORK FOR MICROSOFT.
IN THE U.S. THE NATIONAL
SCIENCE ASSOCIATION PAYS .7%
OF PHGs GO TO
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND THAT'S
NOT ENOUGH ENOUGH.
BECAUSE THERE ARE A LOT OF
BRILLIAN-- BRITIANT PEOPLE
OF EVERY COLOR, STRIPE AND
CREED.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS
PARTNER MORE CLOSELY WITH
PLACES LIKE HOWARD
UNIVERSITY, THE COLLEGE
BOARD ON GETTING K THROUGH
12 EDUCATION IMPROVED TO
BRING MORE PEOPLE NOT
PIPELINE BECAUSE WE WANT TO
SOLVE A BIGGER PROBLEM THAN
JUST GOOGLE RECRUITING.
>> S WITH WAS A LARGER
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN GHOOING
THE SECTOR IN 1987 THAN
THERE IS NOW.
WHERE HAVE THE WOMEN GONE?
>> WELL, I GRADUATED IN THAT
TIME PERIOD AND IT HAS GONE
DOWN RATHER DRAMATICALLY.
I WILL TELL YOU THAT WE KNOW
THAT WOMEN LEAVE TECHNOLOGY
AT TWICE THE RATE OF MEN.
AND RIGHT NOW THERE'S A
PRETTY SERIOUS IMAGE PROBLEM
IN TERMS OF WHAT WE DO.
BUT THERE IS A BIG CHANGE
RIGHT NOW THERE ARE
UNIVERSITIES LIKE-- COLLEGE
THAT HAS 40% WOMEN IN
COMPUTER SCIENCE.
STANDFORD AND OTHER PLACES
ARE MAKING BIG STRIDES.
SO THAT THINGS ARE CHANGING
DRAMATICALLY RIGHT NOW AND
WHAT WE REALLY NEED IS FOR
COMPANIES LIKE GOOGLE TO
MAKE THE PLACE, ONCE THEY
COME WORK THERE, TO STAY.
WE --
>> VIVEK WHAT WA S THIS
TRUE?
IS THIS CHARACTERISTIC OF
THE INDUSTRY?
AND DO YOU ACCEPT GOOGLE'S
REASONING FOR WHY IT IS?
>> GOOGLE IS ABSOLUTEL
ABSOLUTELY-- CORRECT, AND I
SAID AGREE WITH AS WELL,
WHAT HAPPENS HERE IS THAT
YOUNG GIRLS LOOK AT THE TECH
INDUSTRY, THEY SEE IT BEING
MALE DOMINATED.
IT'S LIKE A BOY'S CLUB AND
THEY FEEL LEFT OUT SO THEY
DON'T ENTERING IT.
WHEN THEY DO ENTER IT THEY
FEEL DISCRIMINATED AGAINST,
THEY GET DISCOURAGED, THEY
DROP OUT THIS IS WHAT LEADS
TO THE PROBLEM AND WHY IT'S
IMPORTANT FOR COMPANIES LIKE
GOOGLE TO BE AT THE
FOREFRONT OF CHANGE,
ENCOURAGING WOMEN TO JOIN
THEM AND THEN MAKING
THESE WOMEN FRIENDLY.
AND ALSO ANOTHER IMPORTANT
THING, THAT IN PALO AALTO WE
HAVE-- PALO AALTO HIGH
SCHOOL BUT EAST PALO AALTO
HIGH SCHOOL WHERE YOU HAVE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN AND LATINO
KIDS.
THEY WANT TO BE PART OF THE
ECOSYSTEM OVER HERE WITH.
GOOGLE AND OTHER TECH
COMPANIES WE HAVE TO RECRUIT,
TEACHING CLASSES THERE,
BRINGING THEM INTO THE FOLD,
GIVING THEM INTERNSHIPS AND
THAT COULD CAUSE DRAMATIC
CHANGE IF THEY STARTED
FOCUSING ON IT TODAY.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT IS
HAPPENING NOW IS IT
ACCEPTABLE, MR. WADHWA, IS
IT ACCEPTABLE THAT WE HIRE
PEOPLE WHO LOOK LIKE US AND
THEREFORE WE GET MORE PEOPLE
WHO LOOK LIKE US AND THAT IS
THE REASON BEHIND THIS
PROBLEM GROWING AND GROWING.
>> IT'S NOT ACCEPTABLE.
I HAVE BEEN VERY VOCAL ABOUT
IT.
THE NOOKT THAT GOOGLE IS
BREAKING RANKS WITH THE
OTHER TECH COMPANIES THIS IS
A REALLY, REALLY SIGNIFICANT
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THEY MADE.
IT TOOK A LOT OF COURAGE TO
SAY OKAY O WE'RE GOING TO
DISCLOSE DATA AND SAY THAT
WE'VE DONE WRONG IN THE PAST
AND WE WANT TO FIX THE
PROBLEM.
THEY HAVE DONE AN AMAZING
THING BECAUSE IT WILL SHAKE
UP SILICON VALLEY LIKE
NOTHING ELSE WILL.
>> LET ME ASK YOU, SOME
PEOPLE ARE WATCHING THIS AND
SAYING SO WHAT, SO WHAT
DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE IF
YOU HAVE A DIVERSE WORKFORCE
AS LONG AS THEY ARE TURNING
OUT THE PRODUCTS.
WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT
MAKE?
>> WELL CONTINUATION MAKES A
HUGE DIFFERENCE, WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN INTERNALLY IS
TEAMS THAT ARE DIVERSE NOT
JUST IN SKIN COLOR AND
GENDER BUT SEXUAL
ORIENTATION, ANY KIND OF WAY
YOU WANT TO LOOK AT IT IN
TERMS OF BELIEF SYSTEM.
THEY COME UP WITH BETTER
IDEAS, MORE INTERESTING
THINGS, THERE IS INTERESTING
RESEARCH OUT OF M.I.T. THAT
LOOKS AT THE RELATIONSHIP OF
TEAMS HOMOGENOUS AND ONES
WHERE YOU MECKED IN WOMEN.
THEY FOUND AS YOU INCREASE
THE PROPORTION OF DIVERSITY
TEAMS GET MORE AND MORE AND
MORE PRODUCTIVE.
>> SO THERE IS A BUSINESS
INCENTIVE FOR DIVERSIFYING.
>> THAT'S WHAT THEIR
RESEARCH HAS FOUND.
FROM THE GOOGLE PERSPECTIVE
WE BELIEVE IT'S TRUE AND WE
BELIEVE IT'S THE RIGHT THING
TO DO BECAUSE AT THE END OF
THE DAY THERE ARE 7 BILLION
POTENTIAL USERS ON THE
PLANET OF OUR PRODUCT AND
WE'RE GOING DEVELOP THE BEST
PRODUCT, IF THEY HAVE
INFUTURE INTO WHAT WE ARE
BUILDING WE UNDERSTAND WHERE
THEY ARE COMING FROM.
WE HAVEN'T QUANTITY FIND THE
EXACT OUTPUT THE RESEARCH AT
MIVE.
IT IS INTERESTING AND
COMPELLING.
>> THANK YOU FOR BRINGING IT
TO US.
GOOGLE'S VICE PRESIDENT OF
PEOPLE OPERATIONS, LOVE THAT
TITLE.
AND TELLIE WHITNEY OF ANITA
BORG INSTITUTE AND VIVEK
WADHWA, STANDFORD UNIVERSITY,
THANK YOU ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WE HAVE MORE ON-LINE.
SEE HOW GOOGLE'S NUMBERS
COMPARE TO THOSE OF OTHER
TECH COMPANIES AND READ
COMMENTARY FROM BOTH TELLIE
WHITNEY AND VIVEK WADHWA ON
HOW SILICON VALLEY CAN HIRE
AN RETAIN A DIVERSE
WORKFORCE
>> Woodruff: THE HEAD OF EGYPT'S
MILITARY-LED GOVERNMENT FIELD
MARSHAL ABDEL FATTAH AL-SISI IS
ON COURSE FOR A LANDSLIDE
PRESIDENTIAL VICTORY, ACCORDING
TO PRELIMINARY ELECTION RESULTS.
HOWEVER, DESPITE THE
GOVERNMENT'S EXTRAORDINARY MEANS
TO IMPROVE THE LEADER'S VOTE
COUNT, MANY EGYPTIANS STAYED
AWAY FROM THE POLLS
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE ON
THIS STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: JOINING ME NOW
TO TALK ABOUT THE VOTING IN
EGYPT IS BORZOU DARAGAHI OF THE
FINANCIAL TIMES.
>> BORZOU THERE IS LITTLE
DOUBT ON WHO IS GOING TO WIN
THE EGYPTIAN ELECTION BUT
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE TURN
UTT.
IT SEEMS IT WAS SURPRISINGLY
LOW.
>> IT WAS RECORDED TO BE
RIGHT NOW AUTHORITIES ARE
LOW.
SAYING THAT THEY ARE
RIGHT NOW AUTHORITIES ARE
CONSIDERING IT ABOUT A 44%
SAYING THAT THEY ARE
TURNOUT WHICH IS NOT AS MUCH
CONSIDERING IT ABOUT A 44%
AS THE ELECTION THAT PITTED
TURNOUT WHICH IS NOT AS MUCH
THE FORMER PRESIDENT
AS THE ELECTION THAT PITTED
MOHAMMED MORSI IN 2012 BUT
THE FORMER PRESIDENT
WHAT THEY CONSIDER RATHER
MOHAMMED MORSI IN 2012 BUT
RESPECTABLE AT THIS POINT.
WHAT THEY CONSIDER RATHER
BUT THEY HAD HUGE TROUBLES
RESPECTABLE AT THIS POINT.
TRYING TO GET PEOPLE OUT TO
BUT THEY HAD HUGE TROUBLES
THE POLLS AND EVEN WENT
TRYING TO GET PEOPLE OUT TO
THROUGH THE LABOR OF ADDING
THE POLLS AND EVEN WENT
A VOTING DAY TO THE TWO
THROUGH THE LABOR OF ADDING
ALREADY IN PLACE.
A VOTING DAY TO THE TWO
THEY CANCELED THE STOCK
ALREADY IN PLACE.
MARKET YESTERDAY AND THEY
THEY CANCELED THE STOCK
CLOSED ALL GOVERNMENT
MARKET YESTERDAY AND THEY
MINISTRIES AND URGED THE
CLOSED ALL GOVERNMENT
PRIVATE SECONDER TO RELEASE
MINISTRIES AND URGED THE
WORKERS TO LET THEM GO HOME
PRIVATE SECONDER TO RELEASE
AND VOTE.
WORKERS TO LET THEM GO HOME
>> SO EVEN WITH ALL THAT YOU
AND VOTE.
ARE TALKING ABOUT 44%, IS
>> SO EVEN WITH ALL THAT YOU
THE PERCENTAGE OF TURNOUT
ARE TALKING ABOUT 44%, IS
IMPORTANT TO HAVE WHAT'S
THE PERCENTAGE OF TURNOUT
PERCEIVED AS A MANDATE OR TO
IMPORTANT TO HAVE WHAT'S
LEGITIMIZE THE TAKEOVER
PERCEIVED AS A MANDATE OR TO
WHICH SOME PEOPLE IN EGYPT
LEGITIMIZE THE TAKEOVER
CONSIDER A MILITARY COUP?
WHICH SOME PEOPLE IN EGYPT
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CONSIDER A MILITARY COUP?
SOME EXTENT FOR DOMESTIC
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CONSUMPTION.
SOME EXTENT FOR DOMESTIC
I THINK TO THEM, TO THE
CONSUMPTION.
AUTHORITIES HERE NOW, IT'S
I THINK TO THEM, TO THE
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT
AUTHORITIES HERE NOW, IT'S
INTERNATIONALLY TO BE ABLE
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT
TO POINT TO A LARGE TURNOUT
INTERNATIONALLY TO BE ABLE
TO SAY THAT LOOK, YES, MAYBE
TO POINT TO A LARGE TURNOUT
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
TO SAY THAT LOOK, YES, MAYBE
OPPOSE US WITHIN EGYPT BUT
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
THERE IS A PLURALITY,
OPPOSE US WITHIN EGYPT BUT
PERHAPS WHO ARE IN FAVOR OF
THERE IS A PLURALITY,
SISI, ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
PERHAPS WHO ARE IN FAVOR OF
SISI SO, COME AND DO
SISI, ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT
BUSINESS WITH US.
SISI SO, COME AND DO
I THINK THAT IS REALLY THE
BUSINESS WITH US.
AIM AT THIS FOCUS ON THE
I THINK THAT IS REALLY THE
TURNOUT.
AIM AT THIS FOCUS ON THE
>> IS THERE AN INTERNATIONAL
TURNOUT.
MONITORING SYSTEM IN PLACE
>> IS THERE AN INTERNATIONAL
FOR THESE ELECTIONS?
MONITORING SYSTEM IN PLACE
>> THERE IS.
FOR THESE ELECTIONS?
THE EU HAS SENT 150 OR SO
>> THERE IS.
MONITORS DEPLOYED THROUGHOUT
THE EU HAS SENT 150 OR SO
THE COUNTRY, A USAID FUNDED
MONITORS DEPLOYED THROUGHOUT
DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL, I
THE COUNTRY, A USAID FUNDED
THINK TRANSPARENCY
DEMOCRACY INTERNATIONAL, I
INTERNATIONAL IS KEEPING ON,
THINK TRANSPARENCY
AN EYE ON THE VOTE, A BERLIN
INTERNATIONAL IS KEEPING ON,
BASED ORGANIZATION THERE ARE
AN EYE ON THE VOTE, A BERLIN
ALSO A NUMBER OF LOCAL
BASED ORGANIZATION THERE ARE
ORGANIZATION OS NOW IT WAS
ALSO A NUMBER OF LOCAL
INTERESTING TODAY DEMOCRACY
ORGANIZATION OS NOW IT WAS
INTERNATIONAL ISSUED A
INTERESTING TODAY DEMOCRACY
STATEMENT CALLING THE
INTERNATIONAL ISSUED A
EXTENSION OF THE VOTES BY
STATEMENT CALLING THE
ONE MORE DAY HIGHLY
EXTENSION OF THE VOTES BY
IRREGULAR AND SAID IT
ONE MORE DAY HIGHLY
FURTHER DAMAGED THE
IRREGULAR AND SAID IT
CREDIBILITY OF THE ELECTORAL
FURTHER DAMAGED THE
PROCESS HERE.
CREDIBILITY OF THE ELECTORAL
AND IT DECLINED TO DEPLOY
PROCESS HERE.
MONITORS DURING THIS THIRD
AND IT DECLINED TO DEPLOY
DAY BECAUSE IT WAS-- IT
MONITORS DURING THIS THIRD
CONSIDERED THE EXTENSION OF
DAY BECAUSE IT WAS-- IT
A VOTE AT THE LAST MINUTE
CONSIDERED THE EXTENSION OF
SUCH AN EGREGIOUS --.
A VOTE AT THE LAST MINUTE
>> HOW DO MOST EGYPTIANS
SUCH AN EGREGIOUS --.
VIEW AL-SISI.
>> HOW DO MOST EGYPTIANS
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LARGE
VIEW AL-SISI.
NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THIS
>> I THINK THERE ARE A LARGE
COUNTRY, THERE IS A A LARGE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THIS
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO SUPPORT
COUNTRY, THERE IS A A LARGE
SISI, ARE STRIDENTLY IN
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO SUPPORT
FAVOR OF WHAT HE REPRESENTS
SISI, ARE STRIDENTLY IN
AND ARE JUST SO TIRED OF THE
FAVOR OF WHAT HE REPRESENTS
SUM ULT OF THE LAST FEW
AND ARE JUST SO TIRED OF THE
YEARS.
SUM ULT OF THE LAST FEW
AND-- TUMULT OF THE LAST FEW
YEARS.
YEARS AND EAGER TO HAVE A
AND-- TUMULT OF THE LAST FEW
STRONG MAN, A MILITARY MAN
YEARS AND EAGER TO HAVE A
COME BACK AND RESTORE SOME
STRONG MAN, A MILITARY MAN
SEMBLANCE OF ORDER HERE, PUT
COME BACK AND RESTORE SOME
THE ECONOMY BACK ON TRACK.
SEMBLANCE OF ORDER HERE, PUT
BUT I WILL SAY IT SEEMS LIKE
THE ECONOMY BACK ON TRACK.
THE PEAK OF SISI MANIA WAS A
BUT I WILL SAY IT SEEMS LIKE
COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO AND
THE PEAK OF SISI MANIA WAS A
EVER SINCE HE STARTED
COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO AND
SPEAKING ON THE MEDIA, AS
EVER SINCE HE STARTED
HIS PROGRAM CAME OUT OR LACK
SPEAKING ON THE MEDIA, AS
THEREOF, AS HIS SPEAKING
HIS PROGRAM CAME OUT OR LACK
STYLE, HIS HECTORING, PUSHY
THEREOF, AS HIS SPEAKING
STYLE CAME OUT A LOT OF
STYLE, HIS HECTORING, PUSHY
PEOPLE WERE TURNED OFF BY
STYLE CAME OUT A LOT OF
THAT.
PEOPLE WERE TURNED OFF BY
>> ALL RIGHT, BORZOU
THAT.
DARAGAHI OF "THE FINANCIAL
>> ALL RIGHT, BORZOU
TIMES" JOINING US FROM EGYPT,
DARAGAHI OF "THE FINANCIAL
THANKS SO MUCH.
TIMES" JOINING US FROM EGYPT,
>> IT'S BEEN A PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: THIS MONTH MARKS THE
TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
GENOCIDE IN RWANDA.
OVER THE COURSE OF 100 DAYS IN
1994, A MURDEROUS ETHNIC KILLING
SPREE TOOK THE LIVES OF NEARLY
ONE MILLION PEOPLE THERE.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON THE
EFFORTS UNDERWAY EVEN NOW TO
RECONCILE THE RIVAL PARTIES.
FRED'S REPORT IS PART OF OUR
SERIES, "AGENTS FOR CHANGE."
A VERSION OF THIS STORY AIRED ON
THE PBS PROGRAM, "RELIGION AND
ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY."
>> Reporter: EVERY SUNDAY,
CLAUDE MUSAYIMANA PICKS UP HIS
NEIGHBOR CELESTINE BUHANDA ON
THEIR WAY TO CHURCH.
YOU'D NEVER TELL FROM THE WARM
TRADITIONAL GREETING THAT
MUSAYIMANA MURDERED SEVERAL
MEMBERS OF BUHANDA'S FAMILY.
IT'S A FRIENDSHIP AS UNTHINKABLE
AS THE HOMICIDAL ORGY IN WHICH
HUTUS LIKE MUSIYAMA TOOK NEARLY
A MILLION LIVES AMONG THE
MINORITY TUTSIS, LIKE BUHANDA,
AS WELL AS SOME MODERATE HUTUS
>> ( translated ): GROWING UP, I
REMEMBER MY GRANDMOTHER WOULD
TELL ME HOW BAD THEY WERE.
IN 1994, WHEN WE STARTED KILLING
PEOPLE THE LOCAL LEADERS WERE
SUPPORTING US I DID IT FREELY,
THERE WAS NO BLAME, NO
CONSEQUENCES.
>> Reporter: OFFICIAL BROADCASTS
INCITED HUTUS TO KILL TUTSIS
AFTER AN AIRPLANE CARRYING THE
COUNTRY'S HUTU PRESIDENT WAS
SHOT DOWN, ESCALATING A
SIMMERING CIVIL WAR FOUGHT ALONG
ETHNIC LINES.
THE TENSION DATES BACK DECADES,
AGGRAVATED FIRST BY BELGIAN
COLONIAL RULERS WHO FAVORED THE
MINORITY TUTSI.
THAT CREATED AN ELITE AND BRED
RESENTMENT AMONG THE 85% HUTU
MAJORITY IN RWANDA.
IN PREVIOUS FLARE UPS, CHURCHES
HAD SERVED AS SAFE HAVENS IN
PREVIOUS ETHNIC FLARE-UPS.
NOT IN 1994.
THEY BECAME KILLING CHAMBERS, IN
SOME CASES WITH THE COMPLICITY
OF THEIR PRESUMABLY HUTU
PASTORS.
>> ( translated ): I FLED TO THE
CHURCH IN NTARAMA.
THE ONLY REASON I SURVIVED IS
THAT IT WAS SO CROWDED WE
DECIDED THE MEN SHOULD NOT GO
IN, TO ALLOW ONLY WOMEN AND
CHILDREN TO SHELTER INSIDE THE
CHURCH.
ALL 5,000 WOMEN AND CHILDREN IN
THE NTARAMA CHURCH WERE KILLED
WITH GRENADES OR GUNS.
>> WE WERE EIGHT SIBLINGS, IN
ALL SIX OF MY SIBLINGS WERE
KILLED.
>> Reporter: HE HIMSELF SURVIVED
A WEEKS' LONG FLIGHT AND
ENCOUNTERS WITH HUTU MOBS WHO
LEFT HIM WITH BLOWS TO THE HEAD,
A SEVERED ACHILLES TENDON AND
LEFT HIM FOR DEAD.
>> ( translated ): THE KILLINGS
CONTINUED UNTIL THE R.P.F.
ARRIVED.
>> Reporter: THE R.P.F. OR
RWANDAN PATRIOTIC FRONT, AN ARMY
LED BY EXILES FROM NEIGHBORING
UGANDA, TOOK OVER THE COUNTRY.
IT DROVE GENOCIDE LEADERS AND
MILLIONS OF HUTUS INTO
NEIGHBORING ZAIRE, NOW THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO.
THOUSANDS OF MOSTLY HUTUS WERE
KILLED IN REPRISALS.
R.P.F. LEADER PAUL KAGAME
CONSOLIDATED POWER, BECAME
RWANDA'S PRESIDENT IN 2000 AND
HAS SINCE WON TWO ELECTIONS.
>> ( translated ): AFTER THE
R.P.F. CAME TO POWER I FLED TO
THE SOUTH.
I FELT GUILTY ABOUT THE INNOCENT
PEOPLE I'D KILLED, I DECIDED TO
COME FORWARD AND TELL THE TRUTH.
I WAS ARRESTED AND PUT IN
PRISON.
>> Reporter: MUSAYIMANA SPENT
TEN YEARS IN PRISON.
LIKE HIM, MANY PERPETRATORS ARE
NOW OUT AND RETURNING TO THEIR
COMMUNITIES, AN INTEGRATION THAT
WOULD BE DIFFICULT IN ANY
CIRCUMSTANCE IN THIS CROWDED
COUNTRY: 12 MILLION PEOPLE
SQUEEZED INTO A LAND THE SIZE OF
MARYLAND
RWANDA'S CHURCHES, SO MANY OF
THEM COMPLICIT IN THE GENOCIDE,
MANY OF THEM THE VERY SITES
WHERE MASSACRES OCCURRED, ARE
NOW PLAYING A KEY ROLE IN THE
RECONCILIATION THAT'S SO
CRITICAL TO REBUILDING THIS
COUNTRY.
CLAUDE MUSAYIMANA AND CELESTIN
BUHANDA MET IN ONE OF MANY SMALL
GROUPS SET UP BY THE CHRISTIAN
CHARITY WORLD VISION, WHICH
BROUGHT GENOCIDE SURVIVORS FACE
TO FACE WITH PERPETRATORS.
>> ( translated ): THE WORKSHOPS
WERE VERY IMPORTANT.
FOR MANY YEARS, I KEPT WONDERING
WHAT I COULD DO TO BE FREE, TO
BE ACCEPTED BACK IN THE VILLAGE.
THIS WAS AN OPPORTUNITY.
>> ( translated ): IT WASN'T
EASY.
WE YELLED AT THEM AT FIRST AND
THAT ALLOWED US TO FEEL RELIEF
AND WE WERE ABLE TO FIND SPACE
IN OUR HEARTS TO FORGIVE.
>> Reporter: TODAY THE FORMER
WORKSHOP GROUPS SERVE AS CLUBS,
ORGANIZING PROJECTS TO BUILD
HOMES FOR GENOCIDE SURVIVORS OR
RUN PROJECTS LIKE THIS TREE
NURSERY, TRYING TO MOVE FORWARD
AS ONE COMMUNITY, DESPITE EVER
PRESENT REMINDERS AND PAIN.
ALICE MUKARURINDA LOST NOT ONLY
HER INFANT DAUGHTER, BUT ALSO
HER RIGHT HAND DURING THE
GENOCIDE.
SHE BEARS A DEEP FACIAL SCAR
AMONG OTHER INJURIES.
SHE MET HER ASSAILANT, EMMANUEL
NDAYISABA SIX YEARS AGO IN THIS
GROUP.
>> ( translated ): ALL THOSE
YEARS I LOOKED AT ALL HUTUS AS
THE ONES THAT DID THIS TO ME.
AND I PRAYED TO GOD THAT IF I
COULD MEET THAT ONE PERSON I
WOULD SHIFT THE BLAME FROM ALL
HUTUS TO HIM.
>> ( translated ): I SAW VISIONS
OF THE PEOPLE I KILLED FOR MANY
YEARS.
IT WAS PAINFUL.
I WAS A CHRISTIAN, AN ADVENTIST;
I WAS IN THE CHOIR.
ALL THAT GUILT MADE ME SICK.
>> ( translated ):  WHEN I FIRST
SAW HIM, I WAS SO TRAUMATIZED I
HAD TO BE TAKEN TO HOSPITAL FOR
TEN DAYS, IT WAS NOT EASY.
I BELIEVE IT WAS GOD'S POWER, I
CRIED A LOT.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE BUILT
118 HOUSES SO FAR, WE DO THE
I SPENT EIGHT YEARS IN PRISON,
CAME OUT AND DID TWO YEARS OF
COMMUNITY WORK.
BUT IT NEVER FEELS ENOUGH
>> ( translated ): THE FACT THAT
WE WERE GIVEN THE TIME TO SPEAK
OUT ABOUT OUR FEELINGS MADE US
FEEL MUCH BETTER.
WE HAD KEPT ALL THE SORROWS AND
PAIN IN OUR HEART, IT WAS SO
PAINFUL.
>> SO FAR SHE SAYS HER GROUP
HAS BROUGHT BETWEEN MORE
THAN A THOUSAND PAIRS OF
GENOCIDE SURVIVORS AND
PERPETRATORS BUT THERE IS NO
ESCAPING IT WILL BE A LONG
JOURNEY.
>> THE
>> THE CHALLENGE IS THE
MAGNITUDE OF THE GENOCIDE.
IT WAS VERY DEEP, IT WAS AWFUL
IT WAS VERY BAD AND YOU CANNOT
EXHAUST IT.
YOU HEAL BUT THEN ANOTHER DAY
YOU REMEMBER ANOTHER STORY.
>> Reporter: REBECCA BESANT HAS
BEEN WORKING TO MAKE SURE THE
RECONCILIATION KEEPS MOVING
FORWARD.
SHE HEADS THE RWANDA OFFICE OF A
GROUP CALLED SEARCH FOR COMMON
GROUND.
>> THE FACT THAT YOU KNOW YOUR
NEIGHBOR KILLED YOUR ENTIRE
FAMILY AND NOW YOU'RE STILL IN
THE HOUSE NEXT TO THEM AND HAVE
TO SEE THEM EVERY DAY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE SORT OF
DECIDED I DON'T HAVE A CHOICE.
AND EITHER I CAN LET MY RAGE
ABSOLUTELY CONSUME ME, OR I CAN
ACCEPT THE FACT THAT I'M NOT
GOING ANYWHERE AND HE'S NOT
GOING ANYWHERE, AND WE HAVE TO
MAKE THIS WORK.
>> Reporter: HER AGENCY USES A
REALITY TV SHOW TO ENCOURAGE
ENTREPRENEURS, TRAINS
JOURNALISTS IN A COUNTRY WHERE
MEDIA WERE USED TO INCITE THE
GENOCIDE, AND WORKS IN SCHOOLS
MANY OF TODAY'S YOUTH WERE
ORPHANED BY THE GENOCIDE.
OTHERS HAVE PARENTS IN PRISON.
THROUGH DRAMA SKITS THIS TROUPE
ENCOURAGES STUDENTS TO COME
TOGETHER AS RWANDANS FIRST.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE
REALLY TRYING TO ENCOURAGE, FOR
RWANDA IN THE FUTURE, IS HOW TO
TALK ABOUT THINGS BEFORE IT
EXPLODES.
IF YOU'VE GOT A PROBLEM IN YOUR
CLASSROOM, HOW DO YOU EXPRESS
WHAT THAT PROBLEM IS AND YOU,
AND YOU TALK ABOUT IT IN A FRANK
AND OPEN WAY.
AND I THINK THAT CONTINUES TO BE
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES.
>> Reporter: ONE THING THAT SHE
AND OTHERS SAY IS HELPING RWANDA
HEAL, IS THAT THE ECONOMY, AND
ACCESS TO SERVICES LIKE HEALTH
CARE, HAVE IMPROVED MARKEDLY IN
RECENT YEARS.
>> Ifill: IN OUR SECOND REPORT
TOMORROW, FRED LOOKS AT THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS.
HIS REPORTING IS A PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE UNDER-TOLD STORIES
PROJECT AT ST MARY'S UNIVERSITY
IN MINNESOTA.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
REMEMBERING AUTHOR, POET AND
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST MAYA
ANGELOU.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR
APPRECIATION.
>> A ROCK, A RIVER, A TREE.
>> Brown: ON A CHILLY JANUARY
DAY IN 1993, MAYA ANGELOU
CAPTURED NATIONAL ATTENTION AND,
IN HER OWN SPECIAL WAY, THE
SPIRIT OF THE MOMENT, FOR THE
INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT BILL
CLINTON.
THE POEM SHE READ, "ON THE PULSE
OF THE MORNING" BECAME A
NATIONAL BESTSELLER.
>> BUT TODAY, THE ROCK CRIES OUT
TO US, CLEARLY, FORCEFULLY,
COME, YOU MAY STAND UPON MY
BACK AND FACE YOUR DISTANT
DESTINY, BUT SEEK NO HAVEN IN MY
SHADOW.
I WILL GIVE YOU NO MORE HIDING
PLACE DOWN HERE.
>> Brown: LONG BEFORE THAT
MOMENT, MAYA ANGELOU HAD BECOME
ONE OF THE MOST RESPECTED
AUTHORS AND CULTURAL FIGURES OF
HER GENERATION, MAKING A
REMARKABLE JOURNEY FROM ROUGH
BEGINNINGS.
SHE WAS BORN MARGUERITE JOHNSON
AND SPENT MUCH OF HER CHILDHOOD
IN RACIALLY SEGREGATED ARKANSAS.
AFTER HER MOTHER'S BOYFRIEND
RAPED HER AT THE AGE OF SEVEN,
SHE RETREATED INTO SILENCE FOR
YEARS.
IN 2012, AT THE NEW YORK PUBLIC
LIBRARY, SHE REMEMBERED HOW
BOOKS CAME INTO HER LIFE IN
THOSE TROUBLED TIMES.
>> I HAD BEEN ABUSED AND I
RETURNED TO A LITTLE VILLAGE IN
ARKANSAS.
AND A BLACK LADY TOOK ME TO, SHE
KNEW I WASN'T SPEAKING.
I REFUSED TO SPEAK.
FOR SIX YEARS, I WAS A VOLUNTEER
MUTE.
SHE TOOK ME TO THE LIBRARY IN
THE BLACK SCHOOL.
THE LIBRARY PROBABLY HAD ABOUT
300 BOOKS, MAYBE.
SHE SAID, I WANT YOU TO READ
EVERY BOOK IN THIS LIBRARY.
IT SEEMED TO ME THOUSANDS OF
BOOKS.
>> Brown: ANGELOU BECAME A
SINGLE MOTHER AT 17, WORKED A
VARIETY OF JOBS, INCLUDING AT A
STRIP CLUB AND EVEN RAN A
BROTHEL.
EVENTUALLY, TAKING ON A NEW
NAME, SHE BECAME A SINGER AND
DANCER AND RENAMED HERSELF.
IN 1969, AT THE URGING OF JAMES
BALDWIN, SHE CHRONICLED THAT
EARLY LIFE IN THE FIRST OF WHAT
WOULD BECOME A SERIES OF
MEMOIRS: "I KNOW WHY THE CAGED
BIRD SINGS."
IT WON CRITICAL PRAISE AND MADE
HER ONE OF THE FIRST AFRICAN-
AMERICAN WOMEN TO AUTHOR A BEST-
SELLER.
ANGELOU USED HER NEW VOICE TO
EXPLORE THE EFFECTS OF RACISM
AND SEXISM ON PERSONAL IDENTITY.
ONE SUCH WORK WAS HER 1978 POEM,
"AND STILL I RISE."
>> OUT OF THE HUTS OF HISTORY'S
SHAME
I RISE
UP FROM A PAST ROOTED IN PAIN
A BLACK OCEAN, LEAPING AND WIDE,
I RISE
WELLING AND SWELLING I BEAR IN
A BLACK OCEAN, LEAPING AND WIDE,
THE TIDE
WELLING AND SWELLING I BEAR IN
LEAVING BEHIND NIGHTS OF TERROR
THE TIDE
AND FEAR
LEAVING BEHIND NIGHTS OF TERROR
I RISE
AND FEAR
INTO A DAYBREAK MIRACULOUSLY
I RISE
CLEAR
INTO A DAYBREAK MIRACULOUSLY
I RISE
CLEAR
BRINGING THE GIFTS THAT MY
I RISE
ANCESTORS GAVE,
BRINGING THE GIFTS THAT MY
I AM THE DREAM AND THE HOPE OF
ANCESTORS GAVE,
THE SLAVE
I AM THE DREAM AND THE HOPE OF
AND SO, NATURALLY, THERE I GO
THE SLAVE
RISING
AND SO, NATURALLY, THERE I GO
>> Brown: ANGELOU NEVER WENT TO
RISING
COLLEGE, BUT ULTIMATELY RECEIVED
>> Brown: ANGELOU NEVER WENT TO
MORE THAN 30 HONORARY DEGREES.
COLLEGE, BUT ULTIMATELY RECEIVED
SHE ALSO BECAME A PROMINENT
MORE THAN 30 HONORARY DEGREES.
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST, TONY-
SHE ALSO BECAME A PROMINENT
NOMINATED STAGE ACTRESS, COLLEGE
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST, TONY-
PROFESSOR AND FREQUENT GUEST ON
NOMINATED STAGE ACTRESS, COLLEGE
TELEVISION SHOWS.
PROFESSOR AND FREQUENT GUEST ON
ALONG THE WAY, HER LIFE
TELEVISION SHOWS.
INTERSECTED, IN WORK AND
ALONG THE WAY, HER LIFE
FRIENDSHIP, WITH A NUMBER OF
INTERSECTED, IN WORK AND
OTHER WELL-KNOWN FIGURES, FROM
FRIENDSHIP, WITH A NUMBER OF
MALCOLM X TO OPRAH WINFREY.
OTHER WELL-KNOWN FIGURES, FROM
IN 2012, SHE SPOKE IN A PROFILE
MALCOLM X TO OPRAH WINFREY.
BY P.B.S. AFFILIATE K.Q.E.D.
IN 2012, SHE SPOKE IN A PROFILE
FROM HER HOME IN WINSTON-SALEM,
BY P.B.S. AFFILIATE K.Q.E.D.
NORTH CAROLINA.
FROM HER HOME IN WINSTON-SALEM,
>> FRIENDSHIP.
NORTH CAROLINA.
IT KEEPS YOU ALIVE, IT KEEPS YOU
>> FRIENDSHIP.
AWAKE, IT KEEPS YOU TRYING TO BE
IT KEEPS YOU ALIVE, IT KEEPS YOU
THE BEST.
AWAKE, IT KEEPS YOU TRYING TO BE
AND IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
THE BEST.
WHEN YOU'RE LONELY AND FEEL MOST
AND IN THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
AT ODDS WITH YOURSELF AND WITH
WHEN YOU'RE LONELY AND FEEL MOST
LIFE AND EVEN WITH GOD, YOU CAN
AT ODDS WITH YOURSELF AND WITH
CALL A FRIEND."
LIFE AND EVEN WITH GOD, YOU CAN
>> Brown: IN 2011, PRESIDENT
CALL A FRIEND."
OBAMA PRESENTED ANGELOU WITH THE
>> Brown: IN 2011, PRESIDENT
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM,
OBAMA PRESENTED ANGELOU WITH THE
THE COUNTRY'S HIGHEST CIVILIAN
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM,
HONOR.
THE COUNTRY'S HIGHEST CIVILIAN
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT CALLED HER
HONOR.
A "BRILLIANT WRITER, A FIERCE
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT CALLED HER
FRIEND AND A TRULY PHENOMENAL
A "BRILLIANT WRITER, A FIERCE
WOMAN."
FRIEND AND A TRULY PHENOMENAL
MAYA ANGELOU DIED THIS MORNING
WOMAN."
AT HER WINSTON-SALEM HOME. SHE
MAYA ANGELOU DIED THIS MORNING
WAS 86 YEARS OLD.
AT HER WINSTON-SALEM HOME. SHE
>> Brown: WITH US NOW IS
WAS 86 YEARS OLD.
ELIZABETH ALEXANDER, CHAIR OF
>> Brown: WITH US NOW IS
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDIES
ELIZABETH ALEXANDER, CHAIR OF
DEPARTMENT AT YALE UNIVERSITY,
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN STUDIES
AND HERSELF A PROMINENT POET.
DEPARTMENT AT YALE UNIVERSITY,
SHE READ AN ORIGINAL WORK AT
AND HERSELF A PROMINENT POET.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FIRST
SHE READ AN ORIGINAL WORK AT
INAUGURATION.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FIRST
WELCOME TO YOU, SO
INAUGURATION.
WHAT MADE MAYA ANGELOU SUCH
WELCOME TO YOU, SO
A UNIQUE VOICE?
WHAT MADE MAYA ANGELOU SUCH
WHAT STOOD OUT FOR YOU?
A UNIQUE VOICE?
>> WHAT I THINK WAS
WHAT STOOD OUT FOR YOU?
EXTRAORDINARY ABOUT MAYA
>> WHAT I THINK WAS
ANGELOU'S VOICE IS THAT IT
EXTRAORDINARY ABOUT MAYA
BROUGHT TOGETHER THE
ANGELOU'S VOICE IS THAT IT
LITERARY YOU SEE INFLUENCES
BROUGHT TOGETHER THE
FROM SHAKESPEARE, FROM
LITERARY YOU SEE INFLUENCES
DUNBAR, TO ALL OF THOSE
FROM SHAKESPEARE, FROM
BOOKS SHE TALKED ABOUT
DUNBAR, TO ALL OF THOSE
READING, WITH THE INCREDIBLE
BOOKS SHE TALKED ABOUT
RICHNESS OF THE
READING, WITH THE INCREDIBLE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN'S
RICHNESS OF THE
ORAL TRA DISMINGTS THAT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN WOMEN'S
MOTHERHOOD, THAT DEEP
ORAL TRA DISMINGTS THAT
UNDERSTANDING, THAT MAKE A
MOTHERHOOD, THAT DEEP
WAY OUT OF NO WAY, THAT HAS
UNDERSTANDING, THAT MAKE A
GOTTEN OUR PEOPLE SO VERY,
WAY OUT OF NO WAY, THAT HAS
VERY FAR.
GOTTEN OUR PEOPLE SO VERY,
SHE MARRIED THOSE AND
VERY FAR.
UNDERSTOOD THAT POETRY WAS
SHE MARRIED THOSE AND
NOT ONLY A WRITTEN FORM BUT
UNDERSTOOD THAT POETRY WAS
ALSO A FORM THAT WAS MEANT
NOT ONLY A WRITTEN FORM BUT
TO BE SPOKEN TO BE RECITED,
ALSO A FORM THAT WAS MEANT
TO BE SUNG.
TO BE SPOKEN TO BE RECITED,
I DON'T THINK THERE IS ANY
TO BE SUNG.
WRITER WHO HAD A BETTER
I DON'T THINK THERE IS ANY
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THOSE
WRITER WHO HAD A BETTER
TWO TRADITION TOGETHER COULD
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THOSE
MAKE POSSIBLE.
TWO TRADITION TOGETHER COULD
>> AND WHEN AND HOW DID YOU
MAKE POSSIBLE.
FIRST CONNECT WITH HER WORK?
>> AND WHEN AND HOW DID YOU
>> I READ HER WORK I'M SURE
FIRST CONNECT WITH HER WORK?
WHEN I WAS A CHILD.
>> I READ HER WORK I'M SURE
I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT WAS
WHEN I WAS A CHILD.
EVER NOT THERE.
I CAN'T IMAGINE THAT WAS
I'M SURE THAT I ALSO FIRST
EVER NOT THERE.
CAME TO I KNOW ITEM CAGED
I'M SURE THAT I ALSO FIRST
BIRD SINGS.
CAME TO I KNOW ITEM CAGED
SHE WAS A PROLIFIC MEMOIRIST.
BIRD SINGS.
SHE WROTE SIX MEMOIRS WHICH
SHE WAS A PROLIFIC MEMOIRIST.
ARE NOW TOGETHER IN A REALLY
SHE WROTE SIX MEMOIRS WHICH
BEAUTIFUL MODERN LIBRARY
ARE NOW TOGETHER IN A REALLY
EDITION.
BEAUTIFUL MODERN LIBRARY
AND THOSE MEMOIRS, TELLING
EDITION.
HER LIFE STORY AND TELLING
AND THOSE MEMOIRS, TELLING
THE TRUTH ABOUT HER LIFE,
HER LIFE STORY AND TELLING
TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT WHAT
THE TRUTH ABOUT HER LIFE,
IT MEANT TO GO FROM SILENCE
TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT WHAT
TO TELLING HER STORY,
IT MEANT TO GO FROM SILENCE
TALKING ABOUT THE PAIN,
TO TELLING HER STORY,
TALKING ABOUT THE STRUGGLE,
TALKING ABOUT THE PAIN,
TALKING ABOUT A HISTORY OF
TALKING ABOUT THE STRUGGLE,
THE ENTIRE SECOND HALF OF
TALKING ABOUT A HISTORY OF
THE 20th CENTURY IN STRUGGLE,
THE ENTIRE SECOND HALF OF
ALL OF THAT IS IN THOSE
THE 20th CENTURY IN STRUGGLE,
MEMOIRS.
ALL OF THAT IS IN THOSE
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS HOW
MEMOIRS.
MOST READERS CAME TO KNOW
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS HOW
HER IN THE FIRST PLACE.
MOST READERS CAME TO KNOW
>> WELL, AND THOSE MEMOIRS,
HER IN THE FIRST PLACE.
OF COURSE, TOLD OF A
>> WELL, AND THOSE MEMOIRS,
REMARKABLE STORY, A
OF COURSE, TOLD OF A
LARGER-THAN-LIFE TALE.
REMARKABLE STORY, A
WE LISD SOME OF THE THINGS
LARGER-THAN-LIFE TALE.
SHE DID.
WE LISD SOME OF THE THINGS
AND ALSO INTERSECTING WITH
SHE DID.
SO MANY IMPORTANT FIGURES
AND ALSO INTERSECTING WITH
AND MOMENTS IN THAT HISTORY.
SO MANY IMPORTANT FIGURES
>> YES.
AND MOMENTS IN THAT HISTORY.
AND THAT'S WHY I MENTIONED
>> YES.
THIS 6 VOLUMES ALL IN ONE.
AND THAT'S WHY I MENTIONED
BECAUSE WHEN YOU READ IT
THIS 6 VOLUMES ALL IN ONE.
THROUGH OVER A THOUSAND
BECAUSE WHEN YOU READ IT
PAGES, YOU ALMOST CAN'T
THROUGH OVER A THOUSAND
BELIEVE THE LIFE.
PAGES, YOU ALMOST CAN'T
AND YET IT'S OUT IRLY
BELIEVE THE LIFE.
CREDIBLE BECAUSE SHE HAD
AND YET IT'S OUT IRLY
THAT KIND OF DYNAMISM,
CREDIBLE BECAUSE SHE HAD
CERTAINLY, AND THAT KIND OF
THAT KIND OF DYNAMISM,
PROFOUND UNDERSTANDING OF
CERTAINLY, AND THAT KIND OF
HER OWN VOICE.
PROFOUND UNDERSTANDING OF
AND THAT IF YOU, AS SHE SAID,
HER OWN VOICE.
HAVE A SONG TO SING, YOU
AND THAT IF YOU, AS SHE SAID,
MUST OPEN YOUR MOUTH AND
HAVE A SONG TO SING, YOU
SHARE IT.
MUST OPEN YOUR MOUTH AND
WHO ARE YOU NOT TO SHARE
SHARE IT.
THAT SONG.
WHO ARE YOU NOT TO SHARE
AND I THINK THAT
THAT SONG.
AUTHENTICITY CONNECTED HER
AND I THINK THAT
WITH MALCOLM X, MARTIN
AUTHENTICITY CONNECTED HER
LUTHER KING, JAMES BALDWIN
WITH MALCOLM X, MARTIN
AND SO MANY OTHER PEOPLE WHO
LUTHER KING, JAMES BALDWIN
MADE CHANGE.
AND SO MANY OTHER PEOPLE WHO
>> YOU OF COURSE SHARED THAT
MADE CHANGE.
EXPERIENCE OF WRITING FOR
>> YOU OF COURSE SHARED THAT
AND RI CITING AT
EXPERIENCE OF WRITING FOR
INAUGURATION.
AND RI CITING AT
I WONDER DID YOU EVER TALK
INAUGURATION.
TO HER ABOUT IT.
I WONDER DID YOU EVER TALK
DID YOU SHARE THAT
TO HER ABOUT IT.
EXPERIENCE WITH HER?
DID YOU SHARE THAT
>> WELL, AN EXTRAORDINARY
EXPERIENCE WITH HER?
THING HAPPENED.
>> WELL, AN EXTRAORDINARY
I NEVER HIT PRIF LIGE OF
THING HAPPENED.
MEETING HER BUT A FAW WEEKS
I NEVER HIT PRIF LIGE OF
OF BEFORE THE INAUGURAL
MEETING HER BUT A FAW WEEKS
AFTER IT HAD BEEN ANNOUNCED
OF BEFORE THE INAUGURAL
TO WRITE THE POEM, SHE FOUND
AFTER IT HAD BEEN ANNOUNCED
ME AND CALLED ME.
TO WRITE THE POEM, SHE FOUND
AND THE MOMENT I HEARD THAT
ME AND CALLED ME.
VOICE ON THE PHONE BEFORE
AND THE MOMENT I HEARD THAT
SHE EVEN SAID HER NAME, I
VOICE ON THE PHONE BEFORE
KNEW THAT VOICE, I KNEW WHO
SHE EVEN SAID HER NAME, I
IT WAS, AND WE PROCEEDED TO
KNEW THAT VOICE, I KNEW WHO
HAVE A VERY BEAUTIFUL
IT WAS, AND WE PROCEEDED TO
CONVERSATION WHICH I THINK
HAVE A VERY BEAUTIFUL
FOR HER HAD A SENSE NOT ONLY
CONVERSATION WHICH I THINK
OF KINDNESS, I WAS IN THE
FOR HER HAD A SENSE NOT ONLY
THOSE OF DOING SOMETHING
OF KINDNESS, I WAS IN THE
THAT SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE,
THOSE OF DOING SOMETHING
WRITING THAT POEM.
THAT SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE,
BUT ALSO A SENSE OF HISTORY,
WRITING THAT POEM.
A SENSE OF CONTINUITY.
BUT ALSO A SENSE OF HISTORY,
AND A SENSE THAT AS AN ELDER
A SENSE OF CONTINUITY.
IT WAS FOR HER TO MAKE THAT
AND A SENSE THAT AS AN ELDER
AT ANY TIME.
IT WAS FOR HER TO MAKE THAT
I ASKED HER AT THE END OF
AT ANY TIME.
THE CONVERSATION IF SHE WAS
I ASKED HER AT THE END OF
GOING TO COME TO THE
THE CONVERSATION IF SHE WAS
INAUGUST RAM TO WASHINGTON
GOING TO COME TO THE
AND SHE SAID OH NO, SHE
INAUGUST RAM TO WASHINGTON
LAUGHED.
AND SHE SAID OH NO, SHE
SHE SAID I'VE DONE THAT I'M
LAUGHED.
GOING STAY AT HOME, OPEN A
SHE SAID I'VE DONE THAT I'M
BOTTLE OF WINE AND I'M GOING
GOING STAY AT HOME, OPEN A
TO ENJOY A POTTAGE OF MY OWN
BOTTLE OF WINE AND I'M GOING
PREPARATION.
TO ENJOY A POTTAGE OF MY OWN
SHE SAID I WILL LAUGH, I
PREPARATION.
WILL CRY AND I WILL SING.
SHE SAID I WILL LAUGH, I
SO IT FELT TO ME LIKE A REAL
WILL CRY AND I WILL SING.
BENEDICTION.
SO IT FELT TO ME LIKE A REAL
>> ALL RIGHT, THE WONDERFUL
BENEDICTION.
AND REMARKABLE LIFE OF MAYA
>> ALL RIGHT, THE WONDERFUL
AND LEW, ELIZABETH ALEXANDER,
AND REMARKABLE LIFE OF MAYA
THANK SO MUCH.
AND LEW, ELIZABETH ALEXANDER,
>> MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU
THANK SO MUCH.
FOR ASKING.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE OTHER
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED A
MIDDLE GROUND BETWEEN ISOLATION
AND INTERVENTION, WARNING THAT
MILITARY ACTION IS NOT THE
ANSWER TO EVERY PROBLEM.
AND THE STORM INTENSIFIED OVER
DELAYS IN VETERANS' HEALTH CARE,
AS THE V.A. INSPECTOR GENERAL
REPORTED WAIT TIMES OF 115 DAYS
IN PHOENIX, ARIZONA.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, WE GET UP CLOSE WITH
SOME CAMERA-SHY SEA CREATURES.
ON SCIENCE WEDNESDAY, WE SEE HOW
A PHOTOGRAPHER CAPTURED IMAGES
OF AN ANTSY OCTOPUS AND A COMMON
SEA CUCUMBER.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, GWEN SITS DOWN WITH
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY,
AS THE U.S. JUGGLES MULTIPLE
CRISES AROUND THE GLOBE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.